Add July 30, 2026 TSC meeting notes (#263)
dreamworksanimation/openmoonray: tsc/meetings/2026/2026-07-30.md

# MoonRay TSC Meeting - July 30, 2026

## Quick Recap
The meeting focused on updates and discussions around MoonRay and hdMoonRay development, including recent release issues, CI image improvements, and integration challenges
with USD and MaterialX. Jon, Jean-Francois, Rob, and others discussed the process for identifying good first issues, CI image updates, and the best USD version to target
for builds. Rob announced a significant upcoming update to hdMoonRay, detailing internal changes and new features, and the group discussed the best platforms for community
discussions and collaboration, weighing the pros and cons of Slack, GitHub Discussions, and Confluence. The conversation also covered versioning schemes, the impact of
divergent git histories, and the need for better documentation around submodules. Additionally, the team discussed executable naming conventions for Snap packages and the

> challenges of maintaining consistency across different build systems. Updates from SIGGRAPH included demos of MoonRay running in Katana and Nuke, a new Gaffer plugin, and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
challenges of maintaining consistency across different build systems. Updates from SIGGRAPH included a new Snap installer for MoonRay, demos of Interactive Cryptomatte, MoonRay running on Windows via WSL, an upcoming new Gaffer plugin, and
```

## Next Steps
Jon: Review Jean-Francois's aswf-docker PR for CI images and provide feedback by mid next week.
Jean-Francois: Update the CI images to include fixes for OpenUSD build issues related to MaterialX and OSL integration.
Jean-Francois: Target USD version 26.08 for the next set of CI images.
Rob: Post an update on GitHub about the upcoming large hdMoonRay update, describing the changes and new features.
Rob: Push the work-in-progress hdMoonRay branch to the fork for visibility and potential collaboration.
Rob: Start a discussion (either on GitHub or Slack) for hdMoonRay design decisions and compatibility, including sub-topics like RAMP attribute support.
Jon: Run the idea of using symlinks or wrapper scripts for Snap executable names by SnapCrafters to address the underscore issue.
Randy: Write up a summary of the Birds of the Feather session and post it to the Slack channel.
Jon: Create a tag for the current OpenMoonRay codebase to mark the cutoff point before the hdMoonRay changes (possibly as "hydra-1").
Jon: Discuss and decide on a versioning scheme for tagging the individual LEAF repositories in a future TSC meeting.

## Summary
### MaterialX Submodule Build Issues:

> The team discussed an internal release that had some issues, with Paul explaining they recently added a new MaterialX submodule to OpenMoonRay and encountered build problems.

Reviewer: Was the build problem resolved, and if so - should any details be added here?

Author: I don't remember what the issues were at this point!  I'd rather focus on getting our changes exported as quickly as possible than explaining what they turned out to be.

### MoonRay CI Image Updates:
Jean-Francois discussed updating the PR with changes and addressed blockers in the current CI MoonRay image. Jon explained he was building a list of issues but had

> misunderstood Jean-Francoi's message about recent updates to the MoonRay CI images. Jean-Francois mentioned that someone was working on fixing issues with OpenUSD build

Reviewer: ```suggestion
misunderstood Jean-Francois' message about recent updates to the MoonRay CI images. Jean-Francois mentioned that someone was working on fixing issues with OpenUSD build
```
